Extend testing guidelines (#38)
MetaMask/contributor-docs: guides/unit-testing.md

# Unit Testing Guidelines

## Use Jest

[Jest](https://jestjs.io/) is the testing framework of choice for unit tests at MetaMask. It offers a more comprehensive set of features out of the box over Mocha or Tape that make writing tests for production code very easy. Some of the useful features are:

- [Module mocks](https://jestjs.io/docs/next/mock-functions#mocking-modules)
- [Timer mocks](https://jestjs.io/docs/next/timer-mocks)
- [Snapshots](https://jestjs.io/docs/next/snapshot-testing)
- Automatic [parallelization of tests](https://jestjs.io/blog/2016/09/01/jest-15#buffered-console-messages) without [restricting usage of exclusive tests](https://mochajs.org/#exclusive-tests-are-disallowed)

> - [Automatic sandboxing of tests](https://jestjs.io/blog/2016/03/11/javascript-unit-testing-performance) to prevent accidental leaks when modules are mocked

Reviewer: Hmm... not sure about this one. I know Jest runs each test module in a "sandbox" but the individual tests within that module aren't isolated from each other automatically.

It's hard to tell what this linked post is referring to - maybe it's talking about how their virtualized environment allows effectively mocking `require` and resetting it between each test run? But even that doesn't happen automatically (AFAIK), you need to set `resetMocks` or manually call that between tests.

Author: Hmm, yes, that link isn't very useful. I might have meant something else.

In any case, you're right that only test files are isolated, not tests themselves. There is probably some reason why the Jest team decided to add sandboxing but it seems like an implementation detail. I can remove this.

Author: Removed here: [18feed3](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/18feed3683747443f588f8d6a62a1908602507fe)

  it('adds a new account to the given keyring', () => {
    // ...
  });

  it('removes the account identified by the given address from its associated keyring', () => {
    // ...
  });
});
```

✅

``` typescript
describe('KeyringController', () => {
  describe('addAccount', () => {
    it('adds a new account to the given keyring', () => {
      // ...
    });
  });

  describe('removeAccount', () => {
    it('removes the account identified by the given address from its associated keyring', () => {
      // ...
    });
  });
});
```

## 💡 Use `describe` to group tests for scenarios

If you have many tests that verify the behavior of a piece of code under a particular condition, you might find it helpful to wrap those tests with a `describe` block. Use a phrase starting with `if ...` or `when ...` so as to form a sentence when combined with the test name.

1️⃣

``` typescript
it('calls addToken on the tokens controller if "addToken" is true', () => {
  // ...
})

it('adds the new token to the state if "addToken" is true', () => {
  // ...
})

it('returns a promise that resolves to true if "addToken" is true', () => {
  // ...
})
```

2️⃣

``` typescript

> describe('if "addToken" is true', () => {

Reviewer: Nit: I think it would be better to encourage people to group tests by _scenario_, rather than by other similar factors. The description of this guideline kinda implies that already, but this example isn't as clear because this isn't written like a scenario.

Maybe a description like "when adding a token" would be better here? That might prompt people to think more about the purpose of the tests and the real scenarios they represent, rather than just on inputs and outputs.

Author: Good point. I've updated this guideline here: [1decf7b](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/1decf7b5e036099cd4a523f9f86b05e36fddd8ab)

  it('calls addToken on the tokens controller', () => {
    // ...
  });

  it('adds the new token to the state', () => {
    // ...
  });

  it('returns a promise that resolves to true', () => {
    // ...
  });
});
```

> ## Use `it` to specify known behavior for a unit of code

Author: Originally I had a section which explained the purpose of test names and why they're arranged using `describe` and `it`. Essentially, you can draw a straight line from Jest to the birth of behavior-driven development. However, BDD is a subject unto itself, and I didn't want to overload people with information.

> Use `it` to describe the behavior of a piece of code from the consumer's perspective as it stands today, not as it ought to be.

Reviewer: Hmm. This doesn't seem right. I think test descriptions should describe intentions, i.e. what the code _should_ be doing. Of course they also have to be true (i.e. reflective of what the code actually does), but that's a given. Otherwise the tests wouldn't pass.

We could model the behaviour of the code in many different ways, but organizing by intent produces useful and readable tests.

Author: You're right. When I was writing this guideline I was thinking about where I got my current ideas about testing. I have some predispositions from working at consultancies and I remembered that there were two ideas floating around: 1) "tests as specifications" — which I interpret as "tests are valuable for verifying the behavior of a part of the system but also describing that behavior" — and 2) "tests as examples" — which I interpret as "tests are valuable for demonstrating to consumers how to use it".

At the same time, I was trying to think of a better reason for why it would be desirable to remove "should" from test descriptions other than "it's noise". That led me to the question, if tests describe the behavior of the system, and we don't want to use "should", what we are saying in the test descriptions? Are we describing how the system ought to work or how it actually works? I could see how it could be helpful to be honest and admit "here's what we've got today", whether it's desirable or not. This perspective is especially useful, I think, if you're backfilling tests for code that wasn't written with tests to begin with and you're discovering behavior that people may not realize is there.

That's what I was aiming for in writing this guideline, but I'm realizing that it's a nuanced viewpoint and not applicable in general situations.

All this to say, I agree with you that thinking about intended behavior is more important in most situations than thinking about the actual behavior.

So now the question is, if intention is important, do we want to be using "should" in tests? The [original thinking](https://dannorth.net/introducing-bdd/#an-expressive-test-name-is-helpful-when-a-test-fails) behind "should" was that it baked uncertainty into the software development process and served as a reminder to [constantly compare what the code is doing vs. what it ought to be doing (so, kind of the other side of the coin of what I said above). Is this valuable? Or do we already do this anyway?

Reviewer: I do like your "tests as specifications" interpretation, that's how I think of them as well. But I would expect a specification to communicate the intention behind each guideline as well (at least for anything non-obvious).

There are some cases where we might be writing tests after-the-fact, and we find something non-desirable, and we want to model it with a unit test anyway just so we don't lose track of the behavior. But that would only happen when backfilling tests, so I think of that as an edge case. "Intention" maybe isn't as relevant if it's something a past author wrote that you don't agree with.

But if it's code you authored to serve a specific purpose, the test description is a great place to state that purpose.

Reviewer: I'm still good with omitting "should". I saw it as being better to exclude because the tests then can be read as a specification, and also because it added verbosity to the test descriptions. But I never felt strongly about that guideline either way.

Author: Okay, I've updated this section. Hopefully these changes make more sense: 6646934...9f89251

Do not use "should" at the start of the test name. The official Jest documentation [omits this word from their examples](https://jestjs.io/docs/next/getting-started), and it creates noise when reviewing the list of tests that Jest outputs after a run.

> Do not repeat the name of the function or method in the name of the test if it is possible to communicate what a consumer expects more clearly.

Author: There's another bit of advice that could go here, which is to be aware of scenarios — changes in the context which affect the behavior of the thing under test — and call them out in the test name. That probably deserves its own guideline, however, and I've already written a lot 😅

> Do not repeat the name of the function or method in the name of the test if it is possible to communicate what a consumer expects more clearly.

Reviewer: Is the qualifier necessary here? e.g. can you think of an example where it would be difficult to avoid repeating the name of the function?
```suggestion
Do not repeat the name of the function or method in the name of the test.
```

Author: By adding this clause I was trying to admit that naming is hard, and sometimes the method already describes what it does well and it's really hard to come up with other words. I guess that's not really what I'm saying though. I can remove this.

### Examples

🚫

``` typescript
it("should not stop the block tracker", () => {
  // ...
});
```

✅

``` typescript
it("does not stop the block tracker", () => {
  // ...
});
```

🚫

``` typescript
describe('TokensController', () => {
  it("addToken", () => {
    // ...
  });
});
```

🚫

``` typescript
describe('TokensController', () => {
  it('adds a token', () => {
    // ...
  });
})
```

✅

``` typescript
describe('TokensController', () => {
  describe('addToken', () => {

>     it('adds the given token to the "tokens" array in state', () => {

Reviewer: Nit: "tokens array" here seems like an implementaiton detail. Ideally the test descriptions would describe the behavior in high-level terms, so it's clear to the reader why we want this to happen, and so that we don't have to update the description if we refactor things (e.g. if we change the tokens array to a set, for example).
```suggestion
    it('adds the given token to state', () => {
```

Author: Good point. Updated in 66469342083e36e0bc7b9e0bbecf9b15b65de259...9f892512f284e55f56defb2bdd136f675d546710.

      // ...
    });
  });
})
```

## Keep tests focused

Tests are easier to reason about and maintain when they cover only one aspect of the code.

If you are using "and" in the name of a test, this could indicate the test involves too much behavior and may need to be broken up.

🚫

``` typescript
it("the block tracker is started and returns a promise that resolves to a block number", () => {
  // ...
});
```

✅

``` typescript
it("starts the block tracker", () => {
  // ...
});

> it("returns a promise that resolves to a block number", () => {

Author: Ah, right. I guess this doesn't bother me that much 😅 but it makes sense. Updated in [2e1a567](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/2e1a5673b99dbb3b4aafeec9a033d8d63bac0b41).

      this.currentBlock = null;
    }, 1000);
  }

  #end() {
    await request('eth_unsubscribe', this.subscriptionId);
  }
}
```

this is what consumers see:

``` typescript
// block-tracker.ts
import { request } from '...';

export class BlockTracker extends EventEmitter {
  isRunning = false;

  currentBlock: Block | null = null;

  subscriptionId: number | null;

  async stop() {
    if (!this.isRunning) {
      return;
    }
    this.isRunning = false;
    setTimeout(() => {
      this.currentBlock = null;
    }, 1000);
    await request('eth_unsubscribe', this.subscriptionId);
  }
}
```

and as a result, this is how the method ought to be tested:

``` typescript
describe('BlockTracker', () => {
  describe('stop', () => {
    it('does not reset the current block if the block tracker is already stopped', () => {
      // ...
    });

    it('does not request to unsubscribe if the block tracker is already stopped', () => {
      // ...
    });

    it('resets the current block if the block tracker is already stopped', () => {
      // ...
    });

    it('requests to unsubscribe if the block tracker is already stopped', () => {
      // ...
    });
  });
});
```

> ## Be conscious of phases

Author: At face value, this is less of a guideline and more of a sidebar. I wanted to call it out because I reference phases numerous times throughout this document. I do provide a suggestion for highlighting phases below, however, so _that_ is a guideline. I'm wondering whether it would make more sense to reword this guideline to fit the suggestion?

Reviewer: Yeah, I agree. I was about to comment on the "All unit tests follow four phases" part, because that isn't really true (some tests repeat setup/exercise/verify steps). But we can say that we _recommend_ writing tests in these phases

Author: I've made some changes to this guideline here: [b23c47](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/7b23c477f506c5ae1f2bb4ca0a96d89cab8d8b0d)

Reviewer: Nice!

    it('unlocks the keyrings with valid information', async () => {
      const keyringController = await initializeKeyringController({
        password: 'password',
      });
      keyringController.cacheEncryptionKey = true;
      const returnValue = await keyringController.encryptor.decryptWithKey();
      const decryptWithKeyStub = sinon.stub(
        keyringController.encryptor,
        'decryptWithKey',
      );
      decryptWithKeyStub.resolves(Promise.resolve(returnValue));
      keyringController.store.updateState({ vault: MOCK_ENCRYPTION_DATA });
      await keyringController.setLocked();

      await keyringController.submitEncryptionKey(
        'mockEncryptionKey',
        'mockEncryptionSalt',
      );

      expect(keyringController.encryptor.decryptWithKey.calledOnce).toBe(true);
      expect(keyringController.keyrings).toHaveLength(1);
    });
  })
});
```

### Read more

- ["Arrange, act, assert"](http://xp123.com/articles/3a-arrange-act-assert/) is a simplification of the four-phase test.
- In [behavior-driven development](https://www.agilealliance.org/glossary/bdd/), this is also called ["given, when, then"](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/GivenWhenThen.html).

> ## Keep tests isolated

Author: This guideline is very long, and conceivably each section could be its own guideline, since there is different advice for different situations. It's also a little more philosophical than other guidelines. Let me know if anything is unclear or whether it makes sense to arrange this a different way.

Reviewer: The part about determinism maybe isn't strictly needed here. We can justify test isolation without talking about that at all. I tend to think about isolation more in terms of test maintainability and readability. e.g. 

* Tests should be isolated so that they don't behave differently when `.only` is used for debugging
* Tests should be isolated so that the setup steps fully describe the test scenario to readers
* Tests should be isolated so that they don't mysteriously break when changes are made to other tests.

Plus, that statement about determinism doesn't seem right anyway. Non-deterministic tests are super useful! See fuzz testing. I prefer such tests to not be included as PR checks, instead being run on some other internval (e.g. on push to `main`, nightly, something like that), but there's still a place for non-deterministic testing.

Author: Hmm. I see what you're saying. I'll work on this some more.

Author: I tweaked the wording some here, but I like your ideas for why test isolation exists. I'll see if I can work them in tomorrow.

Reviewer: With that bullet, I was thinking of exactly the same ideas you shared in this comment: https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38#discussion_r1310946590

No need to cover that here if it's covered elsewhere. Those bullets were just examples to consider

In order to be useful, tests must be deterministic. That is, a single test within a file must always pass each and every time, whether it is run on its own, alongside other tests in the same file, or other tests across other files.

To achieve determinism, tests must be performed in a clean room. If a test makes changes to any kind of state which persists outside of itself, it must revert those changes after completion to prevent contaminating other tests.

There are a few different forms that this state can take:

> ### Module mocks

Author: Yeah, this is a good suggestion. I can make this change.

> ### Module mocks

Author: Okay, I revised this section. Let me know what you think: [45403ef](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/45403ef859a71d02a80596b6b6b6dfd810cec0c9)

> ### Module mocks

Reviewer: Looks fantastic

> Mocks for modules — objects reachable via `import` lines — are created via `jest.mock` declarations within a test file. Since modules are mocked once when a test file is read, they are global in the context of the file, so changes in one test can "bleed" over into another test:

Reviewer: Nit: Seems a bit unnecessary to define "module" here - hopefully that's a commonly understood word (especially given your examples). Also it doesn't seem correct to call the `jest.mock` calls "declarations" - nothing is being declared when we mock a module.
```suggestion
Mocks for modules are created by calling `jest.mock` within a test file. Since modules are mocked once when a test file is read, they are global in the context of the file, so changes in one test can "bleed" over into another test:
```

Author: I ended up removing this section.

``` typescript
// Say `functionUnderTest` uses `config` internmally
import { config } from "some-module";
import { functionUnderTest } from "./module-under-test";

jest.mock("some-module", () => {
  return {
    ...jest.requireActual("some-module"),
    config: {
      isActive: true
    }
  };
});

describe("module-under-test", () => {
  describe("functionUnderTest", () => {
    it("does something when isActive is false", () => {
      // Oops! Since `config` is accessible throughout this file, this line
      // changes not only this test but every other test after this
      config.isActive = false;
      expect(functionUnderTest()).toDoSomething();
    });

    it("does something usually", () => {
      // Now `config.isActive` will be `false` within `functionUnderTest`,
      // so it may not do what you expect
      expect(functionUnderTest()).toDoSomething();
    })
  });
})
```

> Setting Jest's [`resetModules`](https://jestjs.io/docs/configuration#resetmodules-boolean) option to `true` instructs Jest to recreate the module registry for each test (i.e. rerun the function that you pass to `jest.mock`), guaranteeing that state kept in modules gets reset appropriately. (This option is set in MetaMask's [module template](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-module-template).)

Reviewer: Hmm. Technically we set `resetMocks` not `resetModules`, though mocks includes module mocks. The distinction seems unnecessary to explain here though. Maybe to avoid this confusion we can reference the `resetMocks` configuration option here instead?

Reviewer: Actually.... does `resetMocks` include `resetModules`? I swear I've looked this up before but now I'm not sure. The docs are frustratingly ambiguous about this.

Author: Oh, interesting. So according to the documentation:

- `resetMocks` calls `jest.resetAllMocks()` before each test. `jest.resetAllMocks()` calls `.mockReset()` on every mocked function.
- `resetModules` calls `jest.resetModules()` before each test. `jest.resetModules()` resets the module registry.
- `restoreMocks` calls `jest.restoreAllMocks()` before each test. `jest.restoreAllMocks()` calls `.mockRestore()` on every mocked function and `.restore()` on every replaced property. It only works on mocks created via `jest.spyOn()` and properties created with `jest.replaceProperty()`.

But according to the comments in `jest.config.js`:

- `resetMocks` resets all mocks, including mocked modules, to `jest.fn()` between each test case.
- `resetModules` resets the module registry before running each individual test.
- `restoreMocks` restores all mocks created using `jest.spyOn()` to their original implementation between each test. It does not affect mocked modules.

So... I'm unsure. According to the source code, [`jest.resetAllMocks()` calls `resetAllMocks` on a ModuleMocker instance](https://github.com/jestjs/jest/blob/331ad059334ab024d0f395cb49fd220d4bebd805/packages/jest-runtime/src/index.ts#L1351), but [`jest.resetModules()` does a bunch of stuff to reset the module registry](https://github.com/jestjs/jest/blob/331ad059334ab024d0f395cb49fd220d4bebd805/packages/jest-runtime/src/index.ts#L1197). So I am inclined to think that the comment for `resetAllMocks` is lying and that it _doesn't_ actually handle modules. But I'll try it out.

Author: After playing around with `resetModules`, it appears that it won't protect against the use case I presented in this "Module mocks" section. I think we would need to re-`require` module between each test if we really wanted to do that. That's a bit disappointing, but maybe I will experiment some more later. In the meantime I can remove this section.

Author: And your suggestion to recommend the use of the configuration option and put the details in a "Read more" section is good one, I can make that change.

Author: Okay, I revised this section to recommend using `resetMocks` and `restoreMocks`: [45403ef](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/45403ef859a71d02a80596b6b6b6dfd810cec0c9)

      expect(interpretMethodData('0x3fbac0ab')).toStrictEqual({
        name: 'Set Approval For All'
      });
    });
  });

  it("returns the signature for setApprovalForAll on Mainnet", () => {
    // Now this test will "just work"
    expect(interpretMethodData('0x3fbac0ab')).toStrictEqual({
      name: 'Set Approval For All'
    });
  });
});
```

Even better, however, is to make use of [dependency injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_injection) to eliminate the need for a global. This allows you to create a fake version of the value in question within your test:

2️⃣

``` typescript
describe("interpretMethodData", () => {
  it("returns the signature for setApprovalForAll on Sepolia", () => {
    const provider = createFakeProvider({ network: "sepolia" });
    expect(interpretMethodData(provider, '0x3fbac0ab')).toStrictEqual({
      name: 'Set Approval For All'
    });
  });

  it("returns the signature for setApprovalForAll on Mainnet", () => {
    const provider = createFakeProvider({ network: "mainnet" });
    expect(interpretMethodData(provider, '0x3fbac0ab')).toStrictEqual({
      name: 'Set Approval For All'
    });
  });
});
```

### Shared variables

> If a variable used inside of a test is declared outside of the test, the value that the variable holds — and thus changes to that variable made inside the test — will remain even after the test ends.

Reviewer: Nit: I found the wording here to be a little confusing. I've attempted to re-word it while conveying the same information, do you think this sounds OK?
```suggestion
Variables declared outside of tests are not reset automatically between tests. Changes made to these variables in tests can affect later tests, breaking test isolation.
```

Author: Good suggestion. I didn't see this before I revised this whole section, but I've applied the suggestion here: [48d3c7a](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/48d3c7a481a227f9527ca03fc80eac0a6c6e404c)

    });
  });

  it("returns the signature for setApprovalForAll on Mainnet", () => {
    // Oops! This will still hit Sepolia
    expect(interpretMethodData('0x3fbac0ab', NETWORK)).toStrictEqual({
      name: 'Set Approval For All'
    });
  });
});
```

It is tempting to reach for `beforeEach` to correct this:

🚫

``` typescript
describe("interpretMethodData", () => {
  const network;

  beforeEach(() => {
    // Now this variable is reset before each test, creating a clean slate
    network = {
      provider: new HttpProvider('https://mainnet.infura.io/v3/abc123');
    };
  });

  it("returns the signature for setApprovalForAll on Sepolia", () => {
    // This change will no longer apply to every other test
    network.provider = new HttpProvider(
      'https://sepolia.infura.io/v3/abc123',
    );
    expect(interpretMethodData('0x3fbac0ab', network)).toStrictEqual({
      name: 'Set Approval For All'
    });
  });

  it("returns the signature for setApprovalForAll on Mainnet", () => {
    // Okay, this will still use Mainnet
    expect(interpretMethodData('0x3fbac0ab', network)).toStrictEqual({
      name: 'Set Approval For All'
    });
  });
});
```

> However, it is best to [avoid hooks altogether](#avoid-before-each-and-after-each). Instead, use a factory function which defines defaults and allows them to be overridden where they are needed:

Reviewer: Nit: Slightly softer wording here might be better
```suggestion
However, it is recommended to [avoid hooks altogether](#avoid-before-each-and-after-each). Instead, use a factory function which defines defaults and allows them to be overridden where they are needed:
```

Author: In another subsection I used "Instead of using hooks, ..." so I copied that wording to here to be consistent. Does that phrase still need revision?

Reviewer: That sounds good too! Just wanted to avoid "best"

describe('TokensController', () => {
  let controller: TokensController;
  let onNetworkDidChangeListener: (networkState: NetworkState) => void | undefined;

  beforeEach(() => {
    onNetworkDidChange = jest.fn();
    controller = new TokensController({
      chainId: '0x1',
      onNetworkDidChange: (listener) => {
        onNetworkDidChangeListener = listener;
      },
    });
  });

  afterEach(() => {
    controller.destroy();
  });

  describe('addToken', () => {
    it('registers the given token under the default network, assuming it has not changed yet', () => {
      controller.addToken({ symbol: 'DAI' });

      expect(controller.state.tokens).toStrictEqual({
        '0x1': {
          symbol: 'DAI',
        },
      });
    });

    it('registers the given token under the current network, even after it changes', () => {
      onNetworkDidChangeListener!({ chainId: '0x42' });

      controller.addToken({ symbol: 'DAI' });

      expect(controller.state.tokens).toStrictEqual({
        '0x42': {
          symbol: 'DAI',
        },
      });
    });
  });
});
```

However, this strategy ends up increasing the long-term maintenance cost of tests for a couple of reasons:

> - It makes debugging tests difficult later. Data that is critical to the purpose of a test — i.e., that is used in the execution or verification phase — may be hidden in a `beforeEach` hook, or it may be split across `beforeEach` and the test in question. This means that in order to trace data as it moves through the test, one must spend time piecing together the full picture.

Reviewer: Nit: What's described here sounds more like "reading" than "debugging". I have this problem not just when debugging, but also when reading a test to understand what it does, or reviewing a test in a PR.

```suggestion
- It makes tests harder to read. Data that is critical to the purpose of a test — i.e., that is used in the execution or verification phase — may be hidden in a `beforeEach` hook, or it may be split across `beforeEach` and the test in question. This means that in order to trace data as it moves through the test, one must spend time piecing together the full picture.
```

Author: Okay fair! Updated in [7a34dfe](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/7a34dfe959d7e2cfa57861cd660a42e61fc42665).

> - It makes writing new tests difficult. Extracting the setup phase assumes that all tests will need to be set up in exactly the same way. But the very nature of code guarantees that this will not be the case. Inevitably, tests will involve scenarios that cause differences in behavior from the "happy path". Using `beforeEach`, in order to construct a new scenario, the test must extend what `beforeEach` is already doing, whether this is passing a different argument to the function being tested, mocking a function to return a different result, or something else. But this is not always as straightforward as it sounds. It is common to declare variables above the `beforeEach` which can be used later on in the file, but the utility of these variables is misleading, as by the time a test runs, these variables have already been used to set it up and thus cannot be reused or changed. Sometimes this creates enough of a problem that developers resort to copying the entirety of the setup code from `beforeEach` into the test, but this introduce another way that maintainers must now use to work with the tests.

Reviewer: Nit: I get what you were going for here, but there's a lot going on here. I've tried to simplify it a bit. I found the examples later in this line to be too confusing as well - I think we'd need to give them more space if we want to keep them in.

```suggestion
- It makes writing tests for new scenarios difficult. The setup steps in `beforeEach` may not apply to future tests that cover different scenarios. In these cases, the author is forced to take on a complex refactor to remove the `beforeEach` steps that don't apply, or pursue complex workarounds.
```

Author: You're right. I like your new wording, that sounds a lot better 😅 Changed here: [054f0c4](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/054f0c43fa2488e6f92a7a6192970a21a3169029)

> A function solves the problems that hooks solve without introducing the problems that they simultaneously introduce. With this pattern, tests that need to customize setup data can do so easily by passing options to the function, and this draws a clear line from the verification phase to the setup phase:

Reviewer: Nit: I've attempted to simplify the first sentence:

 ```suggestion
A setup function serves the same purpose without causing these problems. With this pattern, tests that need to customize setup data can do so easily by passing options to the function, and this draws a clear line from the verification phase to the setup phase:
```

Author: Thanks. Updated here: [079c957](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/079c957dcf678dbaf0920c35af599a839faaa5c0)

✅

``` typescript
type WithControllerOptions = Partial<TokensControllerOptions>;

type WithControllerCallback = (setup: {
  controller: TokensController;
  onNetworkDidChangeListener: (networkState: NetworkState) => void;
}) => void | Promise<void>;

type WithControllerArgs =
  | [WithControllerOptions, WithControllerCallback]
  | [WithControllerCallback];

> async function withController(...args: WithControllerArgs) {

Reviewer: It's great that we're showing an example here of the `with___` pattern, which is super useful for setting up things that also need a "teardown" phase. But this seems like the more complex case. I more often find myself in need of setup without any teardown, which is a lot simpler to write and demonstrate.

Maybe we could include both examples, and explain that this is recommended when there are teardown steps?

Author: Yeah, definitely. I can add that.

Author: Extracted to a different section here: [1a8381b](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/1a8381b901963910688228d92853b647f988e5e5)

  const [{
    chainId = '0x1',
    onNetworkDidChange = (listener) => {
      onNetworkDidChangeListener = listener;
    },
  }, fn] = args.length === 1 ? [{}, args[0]] : args;
  const onNetworkDidChangeListener: (networkState: NetworkState) => void;

  const controller = new TokensController({ chainId, onNetworkDidChange });
  assert(onNetworkDidChangeListener, "onNetworkDidChangeListener was not set")

  try {
    await fn({ controller, onNetworkDidChangeListener });

>   } catch {

Reviewer: Presumably we'll want to destroy the controller in all cases:
```suggestion
  } finally {
```

Author: Whoops! Yup, you're totally right. Fixed in [93daeb5](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/93daeb5645adc7a3b39965b3fbb1237408de6142).

    controller.destroy();
  }
}

describe('TokensController', () => {
  describe('addToken', () => {
    it('registers the given token under the default network, assuming it has not changed yet', async () => {
      await withController({ chainId: '0x1' }, ({ controller }) => {
        controller.addToken({ symbol: 'DAI' });

        expect(controller.state.tokens).toStrictEqual({
          '0x1': {
            symbol: 'DAI',
          },
        });
      });
    });

    it('registers the given token under the current network, even after it changes', () => {
      await withController(({ controller, onNetworkDidChangeListener }) => {
        onNetworkDidChangeListener({ chainId: '0x42' });

        controller.addToken({ symbol: 'DAI' });

        expect(controller.state.tokens).toStrictEqual({
          '0x42': {
            symbol: 'DAI',
          },
        });
      });
    });
  });
});
```

> The only case in which `beforeEach` or `afterEach` is acceptable is when using the Jest API, such as when setting fake timers:

Reviewer: Nit: softer wording:
```suggestion
The only case in which `beforeEach` or `afterEach` is recommended is when using the Jest API, such as when setting fake timers:
```

Reviewer: Actually.... is this recommended? `useFakeTimers` is similar to other setup steps, in that it might be useful for some steps but not others.

Author: Fair point. I included this exception because I've noticed that `useFakeTimers` tends to only be set once at the top of the file (because all of the tests rely on timers in some way) and I haven't run into a case where a single test needs something different. But, of course, it's always possible. In any case, this advice definitely conflicts with the advice given in the test isolation guidelines.

Should we recommend that people use a wrapper function instead?

``` typescript
function withFakeTimers(fn: () => void | Promise<void>) { 
  jest.useFakeTimers();

  try {
    await fn();
  } finally {
    jest.useRealTimers();
  }
}
```

Reviewer: We have quite a few tests in core that use fake timers selectively (e.g. the TokenRatesController). 

But regarding your question, a `withFakeTiimers` wrapper definitely makes sense. But the pattern I've used in the past is to have global teardown but not setup. e.g. call `jest.useRealTimers()` in `afterEach` but leave it up to each test to decide whether to enable fake timers or not. Similar to our typical `sinon.restore()` strategy.

I guess anytime we are "resetting" the global state back to its initial state, using `afterEach` seems fair game and unlikely to cause maintenance issues.

Reviewer: Maybe the whole section should be updated to suggest avoiding `beforeEach`, and not mention `afterEach`? I'm having trouble thinking of a scenario where `afterEach` has caused problems.

Author: I've revised this section to talk primarily about `beforeEach`. I do include a section on handling `afterEach` if necessary but hid that (along with the full explanation) behind a disclosure. Updated here: [1a8381b](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/1a8381b901963910688228d92853b647f988e5e5)

``` typescript
describe("some-module", () => {
  beforeEach(() => {
    jest.useFakeTimers();
  });

  afterEach(() => {
    jest.useRealTimers();
  });

  // ... tests go here ...
});
```

## Keep critical data in the test

Each test involves data that makes that test unique: the test may use special data to construct a scenario, render specific values to its environment, or call out to some other part of the system.

Keeping this data in the test instead of spread out across the file or project makes that test easier to follow from beginning to end.

🚫

``` typescript
const PASSWORD = 'abc123';

// ... many lines later ...

describe('KeyringController', () => {
  describe('submitPassword', () => {
    it('sets the password on the controller', async () => {

>       const keyringController = await initializeKeyringController({

Reviewer: Hmm. This example doesn't look objectionable to me. The contents of the password aren't really necessary to read this test. As long as you assume it's a non-emtpy string, this is perfectly readable.

Did you intend to omit the password from the initialization options? That would be a much better example. Then we could add a comment explaining that it's not clear to the reader that the password was correct

Author: Yes, I think I did mean to do that. I can update this.

Author: I also think that this example doesn't illustrate the problem that I'm referring to in the rationale. I actually think there are a couple reasons why it's good to keep critical data in the test. One is that as a reader you don't have to look so far to piece together the "story" the test is telling. The other (which I think you might be referring to here) is that it hides what's special about the data itself. That could be solved by better naming, though. Maybe there's another reason, though. I'll have to study real world code to refine this some more.

Reviewer: Yeah exactly. The password variable was completely sufficient for explaining both the "story" of the test and the conditions it was running under, because the test would apply to any arbitrary string as the password. If I had reason to double-check the value of "password" I may have been annoyed at having to scroll all the way up and back down again, but there was no need to look.

Author: I went through existing code in `core` and used that to update this example to something I feel like would be 1) more realistic and 2) genuinely annoying. Let me know what you think: [09116f7](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/38/commits/09116f79b63c1d0c057965ed451cfc45714edf8b)

Reviewer: Oh my goodness, great example, that test is painful

        password: PASSWORD,
      });
      await keyringController.submitPassword(PASSWORD);

      expect(keyringController.password).toBe(PASSWORD);
    });
  });
})
```

✅

``` typescript
describe('KeyringController', () => {
  describe('submitPassword', () => {
    it('sets the password on the controller', async () => {
      const keyringController = await initializeKeyringController({
        password: 'abc123',
      });
      await keyringController.submitPassword('abc123');

      expect(keyringController.password).toBe('abc123');
    });
  });
})
```

> ## Use Jest's mock functions instead of Sinon

Author: This is a corollary of "Use Jest", but I chose to call it out because we have a lot of older tests that were presumably written before the conversion to Jest and use Sinon.
